
/ Maintenance Margin Ratio is the lowest required Margin Ratio for a user to 
/ maintain the current open position(s).
/ When the Margin Ratio of the account is lower than the
/  Maintenance Margin Ratio + Liquidation Fee Rate, 
/  full or partial liquidation will occur.

/ Fixed Margin Mode: Margin Ratio = (Fixed Margin + UPL) / Position Value

/ Cross Margin Mode: Margin Ratio = (Balance + RPL + UPL) / Position Value

/ Position Value = Face Value x Number of contracts x Latest Mark Price

/ 3. Maintenance Margin Ratio Tiers
/ Under Fixed Margin Mode, the number of contracts, tier, 
/ and the Maintenance Margin Ratio are calculated based on the specific position.

/ Under Cross Margin Mode, the Number of contracts, Tier, and the 
/ Maintenance Margin Ratio are calculated based on all the positions. 
/ If a user opened weekly, bi-weekly, quarterly and bi-quarterly positions in 
/ the same underlying, our system will count the total number of contracts 
/ he/she holds and place him/her in the respective tier. For example, if a 
/ user opened 1,000BTC weekly contracts, 500 bi-weekly contracts, 
/ 500 quarterly contracts and 500 bi-quarterly contracts, 
/ the total number is 2,500, which is tier 2.


/ contract

/ The maximum number of contract Tier 1 can open(cont)

/ Increasement(cont)

/ The maintenance margin ratio of Tier 1

/ The minimum initial margin ratio of Tier 1

/ BTC-USDT-USDT

/ 500

/ 5,000

/ 0.5%

/ 1%

1. Cross Margin Mode
Every user has a futures account to manage all the funds involved in USDT futures trading. Under the futures trading page, you will be able to see the account details at the top bar:

mceclip0.png
Funds can be freely transferred between "Spot Account" and "Futures Account". However, if you are holding futures contract positions, certain amount of your futures account will be kept on hold as margin, which cannot be withdrawn before delivery. For example, your equity balance is 10 USDT and the margin for your contracts is 2 USDT. The amount you will be able to move will be 8 USDT. The realized profit and loss also cannot be transferred out of the futures account before delivery / settlement.

 

Futures account consists of equity, deposit, RPL and UPL.

Equity = Balance + RPL + UPL. It equals to all the assets in your account.

Balance: margin of your futures account, it is also the amount transferred from your spot account. After settlement, your RPL will be added to your balance.

RPL: realized profit and loss. The profit / loss generated by closing a position before delivery or settlement.

UPL: unrealized profit and loss. The profit / loss generated by a position that has yet to be closed.

Margin: the collateral required for holding all current positions. The required margin varies according to the price and number of positions held. 

Number       

  Term

Description

1

Equity

The total sum of assets in your account, which is Balance + RPL + UPL

2

Balance     

The collateral deposited to the account (can be transferred from Wallet / Spot / Futures / ETT accounts). After settlement, your RPL and UPL will be credited here too.

3

Realized P/L

The profit and loss of the closed positions since the last settlement (08:00 UTC daily).

4

Unrealized P/L

The profit and loss of the open positions since the last settlement (08:00 UTC daily).

5

Avail. Margin

The margin available for opening positions, which is = Equity - required Maintenance Margin - Margin on Hold

6

Used Margin

The margin used for open positions = Maintenance Margin + Margin on Hold

7

Order Margin

Margin withheld for open orders

8

Margin Ratio

A risk indicator for the account, which is Equity / (Position Value + Margin on Hold x Leverage）

9

Maintenance Margin Ratio

The lowest possible Margin Ratio for maintaining the current positions. Full or Partial Liquidation will occur if Margin Ratio is lower than Maintenance Margin Ratio+ Liquidation Fee Rate.

mceclip1.png 

Number  

Term 

Description

1  

Open Position (token / contract)

The Number of contracts open. The unit can be switched to USDT. Open Position = Face value x Number of contracts x Last Filled Price

2

Avail. Cont

The Number of contracts closable, which is Number of contracts open - Number of contracts frozen

3

Margin

Face Value x Number of contracts x Latest Mark Price / Leverage

4

PL

Profit of the current Open Position, including the RPL and UPL settled and credited to Balance.

5

PL Ratio

Profit/initial margin

6

Avg. Price

The average cost of opening the position, which will not vary with settlement and accurately reflects the cost of opening this position

7

Setl. Price

The price used to calculate the UPL. The price will be adjusted every day during settlement. However, such adjustment does not affect users’ actual profit.

8

Liquidation Price       

The price that, when used as Latest Mark Price in the calculation of the Margin Ratio, makes Margin Ratio equal to the required Maintenance Margin Ratio+ Liquidation Fee Rate. When the Mark Price reaches this price, Full or Partial Liquidation occurs.

9

Settled Earnings  

The profit that credited to your balance from the settlement procedure.

10

Unrealized P&L

The profits or losses of your open positions. All UPL will be settled and credited to user balance at settlement every day. Then the UPL will be reset.

Long position：（latest mark price-settlement reference price）x number of contracts  xface value

Short Position：（settlement reference price - latest mark price price）x number of contracts x face value

 
2. Fixed Margin Mode
Funds are segregated into "sub accounts" under this mode. Each sub account consists of balance, RPL, amount on hold and UPL.

Funds can be freely transferred between "Futures Account" and "Spot Account". But the funds in the sub accounts can only be transferred out after all the contract positions are closed. RPL can only be transferred out after settlement.

Balance (account): margin for all open positions, can be transferred to sub accounts for adding margin.

Balance (sub account): margin for the open positions. Together with RPL, they act as the Collateral OCC

Available amount of a swap: the margin available for opening new positions

RPL: Your gains and losses, from the last settlement till now, that have been realized by closing your position. It can be used as margin for the open positions and open orders.

On hold: The margin required for open orders of the contract. After the order is filled, the value will be added to the Collateral OCC, which consists of equity and RPL.

Fixed margin: The margin required for the positions of the swap. The margin will remain the same after opening or closing the positions, but it can be added manually by the user.

mceclip2.png

Number         

  Term

Description

1

Equity

The total sum of assets in your account, which is Balance + RPL + UPL

2

Balance     

The collateral deposited to the account (can be transferred from Wallet / Spot / Futures / ETT accounts). After settlement, your RPL and UPL will be credited here too.

3

Realized P/L

The profit and loss of the closed positions since the last settlement (08:00 UTC daily).

4

Unrealized P/L

The profit and loss of the open positions since the last settlement (08:00 UTC daily).

5

Avail. Margin

The margin available for opening positions, which is = Equity - required Maintenance Margin - Margin on Hold

6

Used Margin

The margin used for open positions = Maintenance Margin + Margin on Hold

7

Order Margin

Margin withheld for open orders

mceclip3.png

Number

Term 

Description

1  

Open Position (token / contract)

The Number of contracts open. The unit can be switched to USDT. Open Position = Face value x Number of contracts x Last Filled Price

2

Avail. Cont        

The Number of contracts closable, which is Number of contracts open - Number of contracts frozen

3

Margin

Face Value x Number of contracts x Latest Mark Price / Leverage

4

PL

Profit of the current Open Position, including the RPL and UPL settled and credited to Balance.

5

PL Ratio

Profit/initial margin

6

Avg. Price 

The average cost of opening the position, which will not vary with settlement and accurately reflects the cost of opening this position

7

Setl. Price

The price used to calculate the UPL. The price will be adjusted every day during settlement. However, such adjustment does not affect users’ actual profit.

8

Liquidation Price       

The price that, when used as Latest Mark Price in the calculation of the Margin Ratio, makes Margin Ratio equal to the required Maintenance Margin Ratio + Liquidation Fee Rate. When the Mark Price reaches this price, Full or Partial Liquidation occurs.

9

Settled Earnings    

The profit that credited to your balance from the settlement procedure.

10

Unrealized P&L

The profits or losses of your open positions. All UPL will be settled and credited to user balance at settlement every day. Then the UPL will be reset.

Long position：（latest mark price-settlement reference price）x number of contracts x face value

Short Position：（settlement reference price - latest mark price price）x number of contracts x face value

 

11

Margin Ratio

A risk indicator for the account, which is (Fixed Margin + UPL) / Position Value = (Fixed Margin + UPL) / (Face Value x Number of contracts x Latest Mark Price)

12

Maintenance Margin Ratio

The lowest possible Margin Ratio for maintaining the current positions. Full or Partial Liquidation will occur if Margin Ratio is lower than Maintenance Margin Ratio + Liquidation Fee Rate.

 

3. Profit and loss
Before settlement, users can buy and sell the contract at their own discretion.

RPL is the profit and loss generated from closing positions.

RPL of a contract: 

Open long: RPL = (Face Value x Average Closing Price - Face Value x Settlement Reference Price) x Number of contracts closed.

E.g. John opened 200 long BTC contracts at the Settlement Reference Price of 5000 USDT/BTC, then closed 100 contracts at 1,0000 USDT/BTC, the RPL is then = (0.0001 BTC x 10000 USDT/BTC - 0.0001 BTC x 5000 USDT/BTC) x 100 = 50 USDT.

Open short: RPL = (Face Value x Settlement Reference Price - Face Value x Average Closing Price) x Number of contracts closed.

E.g. John opened 1000 short BTC contracts at the standard settlement price 5000USDT/BTC, then closed 800 contracts at 1,0000 USD/BTC, the RPL is then = (0.0001 BTC x 5000 USDT/BTC - 0.0001 BTC x 1,0000 USDT/BTC) x 800 = - 400 USDT.

 

UPL of a contract:

Open long: UPL = (Face Value x Latest Mark Price - Face Value x Settlement Reference Price) x Number of contracts held

 E.g. John opened 600 long BTC contracts at the Settlement Reference Price of 500 USDT/BTC, and the latest mark price is 600 USDT/BTC , the UPL is then = (0.0001 BTC x 600 USDT/BTC - 0.0001 BTC x 500 USDT/BTC) x 600 = 6 USDT.

Open long: UPL = (Face Value x Settlement Reference Price - Face Value x Latest Mark Price) x Number of contracts held

E.g. John opened 1000 short BTC contracts at the settlement reference price of 1000USDT/BTC, and the latest mark price is 500 USD/BTC, the UPL is then = (0.0001 BTC x 1000 USDT/BTC - 0.0001 BTC x 500 USDT/BTC) x 1000 = 50 USDT.

1. What is Margin?
Margin is a good-faith deposit, or an amount of capital one needs to post or deposit to hold position.

 

2. Margin Calculation
There are 2 margin modes available in OKEx: Cross Margin Mode and Fixed Margin Mode. For Cross Margin Mode, the Position Margin required varies with the price movements. For Fixed Margin mode, the Position Margin remains the same even the price fluctuates.

 

3. The relation between Margin required and Leverage.
Leverage allows traders to enter a position which is worth much more by committing only a smaller amount of money. The gain or loss is therefore, greatly magnified.

When a user opens a certain position, the required Initial Margin = Position Value / Leverage.

Example:

If the current BTC price is USDT 10,000, and a user wants to open a 10x long position of futures contract that is worth 1 BTC, the number of contracts opened is 1 BTC/0.0001BTC=10,000

Initial Margin = Position Value / Leverage = Face Value x Number of Contracts x Average Position Price / Leverage = 0.0001 BTC x 10000 x 10,000 USDT/BTC / 10= 1000USDT

 

4. Leverage, Initial Margin, Maintenance Margin, and Margin Ratio
Leverage: the leverage level chosen by the user when opening a position

Initial Margin Ratio: 1 / Leverage

Maintenance Margin Ratio: the lowest required margin ratio for maintaining the current open positions. When the Margin Ratio drops below the Maintenance Margin Ratio+ Liquidation fee rate, liquidation will be triggered.

Margin Ratio:

Fixed Margin Mode: Margin Ratio = (Fixed Margin + UPL) / Position Value

Cross Margin Mode: Margin Ratio = (Balance + RPL + UPL) / (Position Value + Withholding Margin of Working Orders x Leverage)

For example

Let the price of 1 BTC be USDT 10,000, a user who selected Fixed Margin Mode opens a long position of 1 BTC. The Number of contracts opened will be 10000, and the Maintenance Margin Ratio will be 1.5% (tier 3)，Liquidation Fee Rate will be 0.075%.

Initial Margin = Face Value x Number of contracts / (Average Position Price x Leverage) = 0.0001 BTC x 10000 x 10,000 USD/BTC / 10 = 1000 USDT

The Initial Margin Ratio for this position is 1 / 10 = 10%

When the price of 1 BTC falls to $9010, the UPL = Face Value x Number of contracts x Latest Mark Price - Face Value x Number of contracts x Average Position Price = 0.0001 BTC x 10000 x 9010 USD/BTC – 0.0001BTC x 100000 x 10000 USD/BTC = -990 USDT

Then the Margin Ratio = (Fixed Margin + UPL) / Average Position Price = (1000USDT - 990 BTC) / (0.0001 BTC x 10000 x 9010 USD/BTC) = 10/9010 = 0.11%, which is smaller than the required Maintenance Margin Ratio + Liquidation Fee Rate(1.575%), so liquidation will be triggered.

 
5. Can I add margin after opening a position?
In fixed margin mode, "auto margin" is disabled by default. User may choose to enable it by clicking the button in futures trading. When "auto margin" is enabled, in partial liquidation mode, our system will transfer funds from the futures account balance to the margin of the contract whenever its margin ratio falls below required maintenance margin ratio plus liquidation fee. Then our system will try to recoup the margin ratio to initial margin ratio as much as possible with the funds available in the futures account balance, keeping the margin ratio higher than maintenance ratio plus liquidation fee. And it will repeat this process whenever the margin ratio falls below the required maintenance margin ratio again. However, the system will not add the margin if it won't help to avoid liquidation.

 

6. Can I add margin manually ?
Yes. However you may only do so in Fixed Margin Mode. Simply enter the amount of margin you would like to add for your positions to reduce liquidation risk.

 

7. Adjusting the Leverage of open positions
OKEx's futures contracts allows leverage level adjustment for open positions. If a user who wants to increase the leverage level, our system will check whether it has reached the tier's limit before allowing the adjustment. After the adjustment, the required maintenance margin will be lowered.

 
V. Price Limits
Avatar OKEx
5 months ago Updated
Price limit is one of the important risk management methods that protects investors and prevents the market from being manipulated. Without price limit, some traders can use small amount of capital and high leverage ratio to make the contract price fluctuate significantly, causing deficit for other users. On the other hand, if the price limit rule is too simple, it will lead to the lack of vitality in the market. Without premiums, there is no difference between spot trading and futures trading, defeating the purpose of the contract transaction.

 

Within 10 minutes after the order is placed:

Max. bid price = Spot index (1 + 5%);

Min. ask price = Spot index (1 – 5%)

After 10 minutes:

Max. bid price = Min [Max (Index, Index*1.03 + price movement average within the last 10 mins), Index*1.25];

Min. ask price = Max [Min (Index, Index*0.97 + price movement average within the last 10 mins), Index*0.75] 

Note: 

Index refers to spot price index.
Price movement average within the last 10 minutes is calculated as follows:
Using the candlestick chart data of the contract and spot index within the last 10 minutes to calculate the (opening price + closing price)/2 of every minute, then calculate the difference between the contract and the index, then take the average value from the difference between the two within the last 10 minutes.
The above rules is applicable to all futures and swap contracts (including USDT futures and coin-margined futures).
Opening long or short contracts are also limited by these rules.
For open long or close long orders: If the order price is higher than the max. bid price, price limit will be triggered;
For open short and close short orders: If the order price is lower than the min. ask price, price limit will be triggered.

1. Mark price Definition
To safeguard users from unnecessary liquidation triggered by abnormal market price, Mark Price is introduced to calculate the UPL.

 
2. Mark price computation
Mark price = Spot Index Price + Moving Average of Basis

Moving Average of Basis = MA((Best Offer + Best Bid)/2 - Spot Index Price)

Mark Price is constructed based on the Spot Index Price and the Moving Average of Basis. The moving average mechanism smooths out temporary price spikes, reducing unnecessary liquidation under volatile market conditions.

 

3. Mark Price application
a. UPL calculations

Long positions: UPL = Face Value x Number of Contracts x Latest Mark Price - Face Value x Number of Contracts x Settlement Reference Price

Short positions: UPL = Face Value x Number of Contracts x Settlement Reference Price - Face Value x Number of Contracts x Latest Mark Price

b. Settlement Price

The Settlement Price for futures contracts is set to the Latest Mark Price at 08:00 UTC every day. The contract delivery time is at 08:00(UTC) on Friday of the expiry week.

I. OKEx USDT Margin Futures Introduction
Avatar OKEx
4 months ago Updated
1. Overview
OKEx futures contract is a virtual derivative product that is settled in digital tokens USDT. Each contract has a face value of fixed amount of digital token(e.g BTCUSDT contract has a face value of 0.0001 BTC). Traders can long a position to profit from the increase of a digital asset's price, or short a position to profit from the decline of a digital asset's price. The available range of the leverage is 0.01-100x.

  

Delivery Date – Futures contracts have a fixed delivery date, and the delivery price is the arithmetic mean of the index for the preceding hour before delivery;

Mark Price - Mark price is used to calculate users' unrealized profits and losses (UPL) in order to reduce unnecessary liquidation in volatile market conditions.

Daily Settlement – a daily settlement process (at UTC 08:00) moves Unrealized PnL into Realized PnL, increasing flexibility of capital utilization.

Tiered Maintenance Margin Ratio System - Maintenance margin ratio (MMR) is the lowest margin ratio required for holding a user's current positions. When the Margin Ratio drops below the MMR plus the liquidation fee rate, liquidation (of full or partial position) occurs. The larger the position a user holds, the higher the MMR, and the maximal leverage available will be lowered effectively.

Partial Liquidation - for users with larger positions and tiered as level 3 or above, when the margin ratio is lower than the MMR of the tier plus the liquidation fee rate, but higher than the MMR of the first tier plus the liquidation fee rate, our system will attempt to bring the user down to a lower tier by partially liquidating the user's positions, until the MMR requirement of the tier is satisfied. Under Fixed Margin Mode, during partial liquidation, the position will be frozen and no related operations can be executed; under Cross Margin Mode, during partial liquidation, the whole perpetual swap account will be frozen and no related operations can be executed.

2. Specifications
BTC：

Term

Description

Underlying

BTC／USDT index 

Settlement coin

USDT

Face Value

0.01BTC 

Price Quotation

1BTC value calculated in USDT equivalent

Tick Size

0.1

Leverage

0.01-100

Trading Hours

7x24

Contract expirations

weekly, bi-weekly, quarterly, bi-quarterly

Contract delivery time

08:00 AM(UTC), Friday of the expiry week

Settlement time

08:00 AM(UTC)

OKEx Futures Trading User Agreement
Avatar OKEx
5 months ago Updated
1. Overview

1.1 OKEx Futures Trading (the “Service”) is a Virtual Financial Asset (VFA) derivative trading service launched by Aux Cayes Fintech Co. Ltd. (hereafter “OKEx”). It is designed, managed, and operated by OKEx. To enable OKEx Futures Trading, you must fully read, understand and agree to “OKEx Futures Trading User Agreement” and the contents included in Article 7.1 herein (the “Agreement”). Please read through all the terms and conditions carefully, before choosing to accept this Agreement. 

 

1.2 Please note that you shall not use the Service before agreeing to the terms of the Agreement. In particular, by accepting the Agreement directly or using the Service, you acknowledge that you have agreed to the terms of the Agreement.

 

2. Eligibility of Using the Service

2.1 You acknowledge and agree that:

you have agreed to “OKEx Terms of Service”, and you are eligible for and not prohibited from using the “Services” defined therein;
this Agreement does not contradict with the laws of the country or region where you are from;
you are the legal owner of the VFAs you have deposited with the Service and aforesaid VFAs are obtained from legitimate sources.
2.2 You are aware of and assume the risks in using the Service, which include but not limited to:

high price volatility of the VFAs and their derivatives could incur big or total loss in a short period time;
the insufficiency of VFAs deposited as margin could incur immediateliquidation of your positions, and you could lose all VFAs you have deposited with the Service;
technology outrage could happen, which may delay or block your use of the Service;
market anomaly could happen, which may incur loss of your VFAs.
from time to time, in order to maintain the overall wellbeing of the market, OKEx needs to add, remove, or change policies. Such action may be in favor or against an individual user like you.
2.3 You acknowledge and agree that:

You will not use the Service for any illegal purpose.
You will not initiate or facilitate any form of market manipulation.
 

3. Using the Service

3.1 The Service provides you with real-time order book along with other information. You may view or download information for your own analysis. OKEx is not responsible for any judgment or analysis you made based on the information provided by the Service.

3.2 You may place orders, in the form required by OKEx, via the website, client software, API or any other channels. Once an order is filled you will not be able to cancel or amend it.

3.3 Once your “Open Long” or “Open Short” order is filled, the corresponding position is opened. Once a “Close Long” or “Close Short” order is filled, the corresponding position is closed. The Service will provide you with information about your positions, and about the value of your VFAs and their derivatives, on real-time basis.

3.4 The Futures will be settled at 08:00 (UTC)everyday (the “Settlement”). The Settlement price is the Latest Mark Price (defined and calculated by the Service, see “OKEx Futures Guide”). At Settlement, the same amount of FVAs as that of UPL will be added to RPL, and RPL less the Clawback amount will be credited to your balance, which can be withdrawn immediately (subject to margin requirement and other limits required by the Service). UPL and RPL are then reset to 0. (For definitions and calculation methods of UPL、RPL and Clawback amount refer to “OKEx Futures Guide”.)

3.5 At the time of contract delivery (08:00 UTC of every Friday), the system will close the positions on all opened weekly futures. The price will be the arithmetic mean value of the BTC /USDT or other relevant index of the preceding one hour before delivery. Profit and loss obtained after closing the position through delivery will be added into RPL, and RPL less the clawback amount will be credited to your balance, which can be withdrawn immediately. UPL and RPL are then reset to 0. (For definitions and calculation methods of UPL, RPL and clawback amount, please refer to "OKEx Futures Guide").

3.6 You shall pay fees to OKEx for the Service. For the fee schedule, please refer to “OKEx Futures Guide” .

3.7  If market anomalies occur before settlement and delivery, including but not limited to acute fluctuation of underlying index or abnormal clawback rate, OKEx may, under its sole discretion, decide to settle at a proper time with commercially reasonable method. OKEx shall post an announcement regarding such detailed rules.

 

4. Risk Management

4.1 The Service introduces various measures to control the systematic risks, including but not limited to:

Margin System with Tiered Maintenance Margin Ratio
Liquidation Mechanism
Societal Clawback Procedure
OKEx will continuously improve its risk-management measures.

4.2 “Margin System with Tiered Maintenance Margin Ratio”. Based on the VFAs you have deposited with the Service, the size of the position you can open is limited. In addition, to avoid Liquidation, your Margin Ratio (defined and calculated by the Service, see “OKEx Futures Guide”) needs to be kept higher than the Maintenance Margin Ratio, which is the lowest required Margin Ratio for you to maintain your current positions. A Tiered Maintenance Margin Ratio Schedule is adopted by the Service. The larger the position opened, the higher Maintenance Margin Ratio will be required. Please refer to the “OKEx Futures Guide” for details.

4.3 “ Liquidation Mechanism”. When the Margin Ratio of your account is lower than the Maintenance Margin Ratio+ Liquidation Fee Rate, a Liquidation of your account will be triggered. Your account will be temporarily taken over by the Service’s Risk Management Engine; and will be back under your control after the liquidation process is done. In Liquidation Mechanism, the Service’s Risk Management Engine will keep liquidating your positions, until your Margin Ratio is back above your Tiered Maintenance Margin Ratio or your positions are fully liquidated. Please refer to the “OKEx Futures Guide” for details.

4.4 “Societal Clawback Procedure”. Some user’s VFAs deposited may not be able to cover the cost incurred by the  Liquidation. The total deficit from of all users who went through  Liquidation will first be paid by the Insurance Fund of the Service. If the Insurance Fund is depleted, the Societal Clawback Procedure is adopted by the Service to cover the remaining deficit. Users that have a net profit for the day will be subject to this clawback. Please refer to the “OKEx Futures Guide” for details. 

4.5 If the size of your positions or open orders accumulate to a level which poses considerable threat to other users, OKEx, under its discretion may request you to cancel your orders or close part of your positions. You acknowledge and agree that OKEx reserves its sole and absolute right and discretion, under exceptional circumstances, to entirely or partially close your position or orders.
 

5. Limitation of Liability

5.1 You acknowledge that you understand the rules and policies thoroughly relating to the services. OKEx will not be liable for your loss due to misunderstanding of the rules and policies. In particular, to open or maintain your positions, the amount of VFAs you deposited as margin will need to meet certain requirements. If the requirements are not met, Liquidation will be triggered. When a Liquidation happens, you could lose all the VFAs you have deposited as margin.

5.2 The information of your trading becomes official at Settlement. The information shown between 2 consecutive Settlements are for reference purpose only and cannot be guaranteed to be implying the official outcome. You could take a loss by your actions based on the intro-settlement information provided. OKEx will not be liable for your loss incurred.

5.3 To comply with the changes in laws or regulations, or to maintain the overall wellbeing of the market, OKEx will need to, under its sole discretion, change policies, rules or implement emergency rules from time to time. Such changes or implementations could lead to temporary inaccessibility of your account, clawback from your account, immediate closure of your certain positions, or other interruption of the Service. OKEx will not be liable for your loss incurred.

5.4 OKEx will not be liable for any loss incurred by uncontrollable situations, which include but not limited to:

system maintenance as announced in advance;
internet device malfunctions which disabled data transfer;
war, riots, floods, earthquakes or any other unexpected disruptions;
hacking attacks, computer virus, internet network malfunctions, banking issues, website updating, service suspension, delay or cancellation due to the interruption of government;
unpredictable or unresolvable issues with the technologies currently available;
caused by third parties including inappropriate or delated executions.
5.5 Network failures, system failures, hacking attacks, and other unforeseen factors have the potential to cause abnormal turnover, market interruptions and other possible anomalies. OKEx reserves the right to cancel and/or roll back transactions over a period of time in which it deems sufficient to mitigate any detrimental market effects. OKEx will not be liable for any loss incurred thereby.

5.6 You are aware that technology outrages can happen unexpectedly. OKEx will not be liable for any loss incurred by technology outrages which include but not limited to:

loss, delay, interruption, or other malfunction of the connection to the Service.
stopping, slowness, no response, or other malfunction of the Service, due to overloading.
malfunction due to the Service’s incapability to retrieve necessary data correctly from a third party through internet.
5.7 OKEx strictly prohibits unfair trading behaviors. OKEx reserves the right to enact, under its sole discretion, executive control over your account, if you

are involved in price manipulation or any other malicious wrongdoings to the market;
might be harming other users or OKEx by exploiting the Service’s vulnerabilities or by other unreasonable means;
are involved in any other activities that OKEx deems harmful to the overall wellbeing of the market.
OKEx also reserves the right to take actions including but not limited to close your accounts, limit trading, halt trading, cancel transactions, and rollback transactions to eliminate any adverse effects to the overall wellbeing of the market. OKEx will not be liable for any loss incurred when such action against you happens.

 

6. Indemnification

6.1 You must indemnify OKEx for actions related to your OKEx account and your use of the Service.

6.2 You hereby agree to defend, indemnify and hold OKEx harmless from any claim or demand (including reasonable legal fees) made or incurred by any third party against OKEx due to or arising out of your breach of this agreement, your improper use of the Service, your violation of any law or the rights of a third party and/or the actions or inactions of any third party to whom you grant permissions to use your OKEx account or access our website, software, system (including any network and servers used to provide any of the Service) operated by us or on our behalf, or any of the Services on your behalf.

 

7. Miscellaneous

7.1 The contents of this Agreement also include OKEx's various system specifications, other agreements or rules in the annex to this Agreement, OKEx Futures with coin margin Users Guide, OKEx Futures with USDT margin Users Guide and other relevant agreements, rules regarding the Service that OKEx may from time to time issue. Once the above content is officially released, it is an integral part of this agreement, and you should also abide by it. In the event of any conflict between the above content and this Agreement, this Agreement shall prevail if no opposite statement. 

7.2 OKEx reserves the right to unilaterally modify this Agreement (including the above contents) if necessary. Such modification could happen at any time without prior notice. In the event that any changes are made, the revised contents shall be posted on OKEx's website immediately. Please check the latest information posted therein to inform yourself of any changes. Your continued use of or access to the Service following the posting of any changes constitutes acceptance of those changes. If you do not accept the revised content, you should stop using the related services.

7.3 You should read the Agreement, and any document referred to in them very carefully. If there is anything that you do not understand in the Agreement and any document referred to herein, you should discuss this matter with OKEx and seek the necessary clarification. Any formal communication with you will be undertaken through electronic mail unless otherwise instructed. Documents will be sent to you by electronic mail and you should seek to send any documents to us by the same means. You will also be able to contact us telephonically. Any formal communication with you will, unless otherwise agreed, be made in the English language. In the event of any discrepancy between the English language version of the Agreement or any such communications and any translation of the Agreement or such communications (as applicable) in a foreign language, the respective English version shall prevail. In the event of any discrepancy between communications and the Agreement, the Agreement shall prevail.

7.4 The establishment, validity, explanation, alteration, execution and dispute resolution of this user agreement shall be governed by the laws of Seychelles. 

7.5 If there is any dispute between a user and OKEx, both parties should try to work out a resolution through negotiations. However, if the attempt is unsuccessful, both parties should agree to resolve the disagreement or dispute through Seychelles judiciary.

7.6 All the headings in this agreement are for reading convenience only and shall not affect its interpretation. 

7.7 This Agreement does not apply to users of the Futures Trading Simulation.

XI. Settlement
Avatar OKEx
3 months ago Updated
1. How is settlement price determined?
The system takes the latest mark price at the settlement time for settlement.

All tokens' settlement prices are different, and do not affect each other.

 

2. What is settlement?
All futures contracts undergo settlement at 16:00 (Hong Kong time) everyday, contracts that need to be delivered on the day are not included in the settlement of the day.

When settlement occurs, all transactions will be suspended. Matching will resume after settlement is completed.

The UPL will be calculated from the settlement price, standard settlement price of your open positions and the number of your open positions. The RPL and UPL of each contract will be transferred into the account balance after clawback.

Under cross-margin mode, after settlement, the standard settlement price will be adjusted to the same as the latest settlement price. The UPL will be settled with the new standard settlement price.

Under fixed-margin mode, during settlement, if the UPL calculated based on the settlement price is a negative number, the fixed-margin will be deducted accordingly. After settlement, the standard settlement price will be adjusted to the same as the latest settlement price, and the UPL will be calculated based on the new standard settlement price.

If new positions are opened after settlement, the standard settlement price will change.

After settlement, the RPL, UPL and the cost of holding positions of a user will change. However, the equity of the account remains the same.

For example, a user opens a long position at $300. The equity and the margin of the account are 10 BTC. After the price falls to $280, the UPL becomes -1BTC, the balance is still 10BTC, however the equity is reduced to 9BTC. The 1BTC lost is caused due to the price drop.

Now settlement takes place. The standard settlement price is adjusted to $280. All the UPL is transferred to the account balance, and therefore the value returns to 0. Account balance becomes 9 BTC after the transfer. However, equity of the account is still 9 BTC which is the same as the value before the settlement happens.

In short, settlement transfer the profit and loss in to the account balance, allowing users to make use of the profit (if any). However, it does not affect the equity of the account.

 

3. Delivery rules
a）At the time of contract delivery, the system will execute to close the positions on all opened weekly futures. The price will be the arithmetic mean of the index of the preceding one hour before delivery. The profit and loss obtained after closing the position through delivery will be added into the realized profit and loss line item.

b）If at the time of delivery, there are outstanding liquidated positions unfulfilled, those positions will be delivered at their delivery prices. Any margin call losses, and the losses caused by the positions being traded at a price lower than the bankruptcy price, will be socialized through our full-account clawback system after the delivery of the week’s futures contract and the clearing of bi-weekly， quarterly and bi-quarterly contracts, so as to compensate for the margin call losses.

c）Delivery is completed when all RPL is added into the account balance.

d）In case of index fluctuation caused by suspected market manipulation or abnormality resulting in abnormal clawback rate near the settlement and delivery time, we might postpone the settlement and delivery for the best interest of our users. Further announcements will be made as appropriate in due course.

Settlement time: 08:00 on Friday of the expiring week (UTC)

1. What is Margin?
Margin is a good-faith deposit, or an amount of capital one needs to post or deposit to hold position.

 

2. Margin Calculation
There are 2 margin modes available in OKEx: Cross Margin Mode and Fixed Margin Mode. For Cross Margin Mode, the Position Margin required varies with the price movements. For Fixed Margin mode, the Position Margin remains the same even the price fluctuates.

 

3. The relation between Margin required and Leverage.
Leverage allows traders to enter a position which is worth much more by committing only a smaller amount of money. The gain or loss is therefore, greatly magnified.

When a user opens a certain position, the required Initial Margin = Position Value / Leverage.

Example:

If the current BTC price is USDT 10,000, and a user wants to open a 10x long position of futures contract that is worth 1 BTC, the number of contracts opened is 1 BTC/0.0001BTC=10,000

Initial Margin = Position Value / Leverage = Face Value x Number of Contracts x Average Position Price / Leverage = 0.0001 BTC x 10000 x 10,000 USDT/BTC / 10= 1000USDT

 

4. Leverage, Initial Margin, Maintenance Margin, and Margin Ratio
Leverage: the leverage level chosen by the user when opening a position

Initial Margin Ratio: 1 / Leverage

Maintenance Margin Ratio: the lowest required margin ratio for maintaining the current open positions. When the Margin Ratio drops below the Maintenance Margin Ratio+ Liquidation fee rate, liquidation will be triggered.

Margin Ratio:

Fixed Margin Mode: Margin Ratio = (Fixed Margin + UPL) / Position Value

Cross Margin Mode: Margin Ratio = (Balance + RPL + UPL) / (Position Value + Withholding Margin of Working Orders x Leverage)

For example

Let the price of 1 BTC be USDT 10,000, a user who selected Fixed Margin Mode opens a long position of 1 BTC. The Number of contracts opened will be 10000, and the Maintenance Margin Ratio will be 1.5% (tier 3)，Liquidation Fee Rate will be 0.075%.

Initial Margin = Face Value x Number of contracts / (Average Position Price x Leverage) = 0.0001 BTC x 10000 x 10,000 USD/BTC / 10 = 1000 USDT

The Initial Margin Ratio for this position is 1 / 10 = 10%

When the price of 1 BTC falls to $9010, the UPL = Face Value x Number of contracts x Latest Mark Price - Face Value x Number of contracts x Average Position Price = 0.0001 BTC x 10000 x 9010 USD/BTC – 0.0001BTC x 100000 x 10000 USD/BTC = -990 USDT

Then the Margin Ratio = (Fixed Margin + UPL) / Average Position Price = (1000USDT - 990 BTC) / (0.0001 BTC x 10000 x 9010 USD/BTC) = 10/9010 = 0.11%, which is smaller than the required Maintenance Margin Ratio + Liquidation Fee Rate(1.575%), so liquidation will be triggered.

 
5. Can I add margin after opening a position?
In fixed margin mode, "auto margin" is disabled by default. User may choose to enable it by clicking the button in futures trading. When "auto margin" is enabled, in partial liquidation mode, our system will transfer funds from the futures account balance to the margin of the contract whenever its margin ratio falls below required maintenance margin ratio plus liquidation fee. Then our system will try to recoup the margin ratio to initial margin ratio as much as possible with the funds available in the futures account balance, keeping the margin ratio higher than maintenance ratio plus liquidation fee. And it will repeat this process whenever the margin ratio falls below the required maintenance margin ratio again. However, the system will not add the margin if it won't help to avoid liquidation.

 

6. Can I add margin manually ?
Yes. However you may only do so in Fixed Margin Mode. Simply enter the amount of margin you would like to add for your positions to reduce liquidation risk.

 

7. Adjusting the Leverage of open positions
OKEx's futures contracts allows leverage level adjustment for open positions. If a user who wants to increase the leverage level, our system will check whether it has reached the tier's limit before allowing the adjustment. After the adjustment, the required maintenance margin will be lowered.


VIII. Forced Partial or Full Liquidation
Avatar OKEx
5 months ago Updated
A Forced Partial Liquidation system is introduced to avoid large amount of liquidation orders due to Forced Full Liquidation impacting the market.

 

1. Forced Partial Liquidation
 

For position at Tier 3 or above (Number of Swaps>=12,001, e.g. 15,000), Forced Partial Liquidation occurs when the Margin Ratio is lower than the required Maintenance Margin Ratio (2%). The relevant position will be liquidated until it is at Tier 1. In the above example, the Number of Swaps to be closed = Number of Swaps held – max Number of Swaps acceptable for Tier 1 = 15,000-2,000=13,000 swaps.

 

For Fixed Margin Mode, liquidation orders will be sent in a price slightly better than market price, force-closing the required Number of Swaps. During the time, the position will be frozen and not be controlled by the user.

 

About a minute later, if the orders are filled and the Margin Ratio of the remaining position reach the Maintenance Margin Ratio+ Forced-Liquidation Fee Rate required by the relevant tier, then the remaining liquidation orders will be canceled, and the user’s control over the position is restored.

 

If the liquidation orders are unfilled or the Margin Ratio of the remaining position does not reach the required Maintenance Margin Ratio+ Forced-Liquidation Fee Rate, then the unfilled liquidation orders will be canceled. The liquidation procedure will start over again. This process will be repeated until the latest Margin Ratio meets MMR requirement.

 

In Cross Margin Mode, if there is only long position or short position, the Forced Partial Liquidation process will be the same as above.

 

In Cross Margin Mode, if there are both long and short positions, the pairs of long/short positions will be closed immediately. If Margin Ratio reaches the required Maintenance Margin Ratio, liquidation will stop; if it is not reached, the liquidation will continue.


2. Forced Full Liquidation
 

Fixed Margin Mode:When a user's maintenance margin ratio tier is 2 or below and his maintenance margin ratio falls below the tier's required level, or when a user's maintenance margin ratio tier is 3 or above and his maintenance margin ratio is less than the requirement of tier 1, the position will be closed at its bankruptcy price (at which all margins are lost) and taken over by the forced liquidation engine.

 

Cross Margin Mode: When a user's maintenance margin ratio tier is 2 or below and his maintenance margin ratio falls below the tier's required level, or when a user's maintenance margin ratio tier is 3 or above and his maintenance margin ratio is less than the requirement of tier 1, the position will be closed at its bankruptcy price (at which all margins are lost) and taken over by the forced liquidation engine.

IX. Glossary and Formulae
Avatar OKEx
8 months ago Updated
1. Account
 

Cross Margin Mode



Term

Description

Equity            

The total sum of assets in your account, which is Balance + RPL + UPL.

Balance

The collateral deposited to the account (can be transferred from Wallet / Spot / Futures / ETT accounts). After settlement, your RPL and UPL will be credited here too.

RPL

The profit and loss of the closed positions since the last settlement (16:00 HKT daily).

UPL

The profit and loss of the open positions since the last settlement (16:00 HKT daily).

Margin Available

The margin available for opening positions, which is = Equity - required Maintenance Margin - Margin on Hold

Margin Used

The margin used for open positions = Maintenance Margin + Margin on Hold

Margin on Hold

Margin withheld for Working Orders

Margin Ratio

A risk indicator for the account, which is Equity / (Position Value + Margin on Hold x Leverage)

Maintenance Margin Ratio

The lowest possible Margin Ratio for maintaining the current positions. Full or Partial Liquidation will occur if Margin Ratio is lower than Maintenance Margin Ratio+ Forced-Liquidation Fee Rate.

 

 

Term

Description

Open Position (token / contract)

The Number of Swaps open. The unit can be switched to token. Open Position = Face value x Number of Swaps / Last Filled Price

Closable

The Number of Swaps  closable, which is Number of Swaps open - Number of Swaps frozen

Margin

Face Value x Number of Swaps / (Latest Mark Price x Leverage)

Profit

Profit of the current Open Position, including the RPL and UPL settled and credited to Balance.

Profit Ratio

Profit / Initial Margin

Average Position Price

The average cost of opening the position, which will not vary with settlement and accurately reflects the cost of opening this position.

Settlement Reference Price

The price used to calculate the UPL. The price will be adjusted every day during settlement. However, such adjustment does not affect users’ actual profit.

Est. liquidation price

The price that, when used as Latest Mark Price in the calculation of the Margin Ratio, makes Margin Ratio equal to the required Maintenance Margin Ratio+ Forced-Liquidation Fee Rate. When the Mark Price reaches this price, Full or Partial Liquidation occurs.

Settled profit

The profit that credited to your balance from the settlement procedure.

UPL

The profits or losses of your open positions. All UPL will be settled and credited to user balance at settlement every day. Then the UPL will be reset.

 

Fixed margin mode

Funds are segregated into "sub accounts" under this mode. Each sub account consists of balance, RPL, amount on hold and UPL.

Funds can be freely transferred between "Futures Account" and "Spot Account". But the funds in the sub accounts can only be transferred out after all the holding positions of the contract are closed. While RPL can only be transferred out after settlement.

Balance (account): margin for all open positions, can be transferred to sub accounts for adding margin.

Balance (sub account): margin for the open positions. Together with RPL, they act as the Collateral OCC

Available amount of a swap: the margin available for opening new positions

RPL: Your gains and losses, from the last settlement till now, that have been realized by closing your position. It can be used as margin for the holding positions and open orders.

On hold: The margin required for open orders of the contract. After the order is filled, the value will be added to the Collateral OCC, which consists of equity and RPL.

Fixed margin: The margin required for the positions of the swap. The margin will remain the same after opening or closing the positions, but it can be added manually by the user.



Term

Description

Equity

The total sum of assets in your account, which is Balance + RPL + UPL.

Balance

The collateral deposited to the account (can be transferred from Wallet / Spot / Futures / ETT accounts). After settlement, your RPL and UPL will be credited here too.

RPL

The profit and loss of the closed positions since the last settlement (16:00 HKT daily).

UPL

The profit and loss of the open positions since the last settlement (16:00 HKT daily).

Margin Available

The margin available for opening positions, which is = Equity - required Maintenance Margin - Margin on Hold

Margin Used

The margin used for open positions = Maintenance Margin + Margin on Hold

Margin on Hold

Margin withheld for Working Orders

 



Term

Description

Open Position (token / contract)

The Number of Swaps open. The unit can be switched to token. Open Position = Face value x Number of Swaps / Last Filled Price

Closable

The Number of Swaps  closable, which is Number of Swaps open - Number of Swaps frozen

Margin

Face Value x Number of Swaps / (Latest Mark Price x Leverage)

Profit

Profit of the current Open Position, including the RPL and UPL settled and credited to Balance.

Profit Ratio

Profit / Initial Margin

Average Position Price

The average cost of opening the position, which will not vary with settlement and accurately reflects the cost of opening this position.

Settlement Reference Price

The price used to calculate the UPL. The price will be adjusted every day during settlement. However, such adjustment does not affect users’ actual profit.

Est. liquidation price

The price that, when used as Latest Mark Price in the calculation of the Margin Ratio, makes Margin Ratio equal to the required Maintenance Margin Ratio. When the Mark Price reaches this price, Full or Partial Liquidation occurs.

Settled profit

The profit that credited to your balance from the settlement procedure.

UPL

The profits or losses of your open positions. All UPL will be settled and credited to user balance at settlement every day. Then the UPL will be reset.

Margin Ratio

A risk indicator for the account, which is (Fixed Margin + UPL) / Position Value = (Fixed Margin + UPL) / (Face Value x Number of Swaps / Latest Mark Price)

Maintenance Margin Ratio

The lowest possible Margin Ratio for maintaining the current positions. Full or Partial Liquidation will occur if Margin Ratio is lower than Maintenance Margin Ratio.

 

 

2. Profit and Loss
 

Before settlement, users can buy and sell the swaps on their own discretion.

 

RPL is the profit and loss generated from closing positions.

 

RPL of a swap:

 

Open long: RPL = (Face Value / Settlement Reference Price - Face Value / Average Closing Price) x Number of Swaps closed.

 

E.g. John opened 2 long BTC swaps at the Settlement Reference Price 500 USD/BTC, then closed 1 swap at 1,000 USD/BTC, the RPL is then = (100 USD / 500 USD/BTC - 100 USD / 1,000 USD/BTC) * 1 = 0.1 BTC.

 

Open short: RPL = (Face Value / Average Closing Price - Face Value / Settlement Reference Price) x Number of Swaps closed.

 

E.g. John opened 10 short BTC swaps at the standard settlement price 500 USD/BTC, then closed 8 swaps at 1,000 USD/BTC, the RPL is then = (100 USD / 1,000 USD/BTC - 100 USD / 500 USD/BTC) * 8 = - 0.8 BTC.

 

UPL of a swap:

 

Open long: RPL = (Face Value / Settlement Reference Price - Face Value / Latest Mark Price) x Number of Swaps held

 

Open long: RPL = (Face Value / Latest Mark Price - Face Value / Settlement Reference Price) x Number of Swaps held

Facebook Twitter LinkedIn

// derive maintenence margin


// derive unrealized pnl


// derive realized pnl


// derive liquidation price


// derive bankruptcy price


// derive breakeven price


// exec fill


// update order margin


// liquidation